In the last lecture I mentioned that vuejs proxies, the properties we set up here on the data field
and it does the same for the methods and computed properties so we can access them from outside, like
here setting the title and I can also call this show method, for example.
So if I want to do this and I hit control enter, you will see that after three seconds I get this alert
and now it is updated and not changed by a timer because after changing the title here, I call the
show method which changes the title again.
So this is this proxying because in theory, we're not creating this vue instance,
yes we're calling it, we're creating with the constructor but it's just an object shipped with the vuejs
framework,
the core object of that framework that is. And we don't know which properties this has or we can find
out from the API reference but it clearly does not have the properties we set up here in the object
we passed to the constructor,
that's just an argument we give to that constructor, right.
But behind the scenes, when creating an instance vuejs will take our object we pass in here and then
it will take our data properties and our methods and will kind of use them as native properties on
the vue instance object itself,
so it'll kind of copy them.
It does a bit more than that behind the scenes,
it actually sets up a kind of a watcher for each of those properties which makes sure that it recognizes
whenever one of these properties is changed so that it knows when to update the dom or when to do anything.
So it not only takes them and allows us to work with them like in normal dummy javascript,
it also has this watcher layer where it recognizes that something changed and is able to work with that.
This has an important implication,
we're able to access our properties like that from outside but we're not able to create a new property
like this, if I set vm1 newProp equals new,
then I can set it, this will work this is normal javascript script, I can add a property like this
but what I can't do is I can't use it in my vue instance,
it's not reactive, vuejs is not watching it because it only will create this proxying, it will
only create these watchers for everything we pass in this object upon creation with these constructors,
so everything we pass in this object we pass to the constructor.
Every other property we add thereafter will be there as you can clearly tell if we print it to the
console,
so let's output it here and open up the console,
you see the vue instance here. You can see it get a lot of properties here and you can see
here are our proxied properties with getters and setters, this is this watcher effect that I was talking
of
and here you see this new prop,
it doesn't have this getter or setter and that is because we didn't pass it up on creation of the instance,
therefore vuejs did not set up these getters and setters and therefore it is not watching that.
These getters and setters you see here all over the place are basically vuejs tool of understanding
whenever we access a property or get the value from it, makes sense I guess.
So this is important to understand, this proxying of properties that vuejs watches them for us, that
we can access them from outside of the instance by directly accessing them on our vm variable where
we store the instance but that we cannot add new properties or that we can add them but they won't work
as normal properties we pass in this data property here or as methods when creating this vue instance.
That is really important to understand and to keep in mind.